One of the most important factors to keep
in mind while creating a web page is,
file sizes.
The more data you have to load,
the more your site visitors will have to
wait around.
This is always important, but
it's especially important with media, like
audio and
video because, they typically have much
larger file sizes than text and images.
It's not enough to just take a video clip
from your camera or
your smart phone and just toss it onto a
web page.
Rather you need to make sure that you've
compressed the video and audio properly,
so that it has a small file size, but
still looks and sounds good.
So, there's a couple of different programs
that you could use to do this.
One is VLC, or VideoLAN and this is a
media player,
but it does a whole bunch of stuff and one
of them is convert video.
You could also use another program like
Adobe media encoder or
maybe a non linear video editor of your
choice.
Just about anything will be able to
convert the video into at
least H.264 which is a format supported by
Internet Explorer and Safari.
However to get the files into ogg theora,
VLC should work just fine.
So let's switch over to VLC.
You can download it and when you install
it on a Mac,
it will look something like this.
And I'll go up to file here, and I'll say
convert slash stream and it will give me
a window here were I can open media and
then I have a file here I want to convert.
So, I already have this video and this was
shot on a pretty nice camera but
you can get this same kind of file format
from an iPhone or,
maybe an android phone and convert it.
Pretty much any incoming video, you can
convert into the format that you need.
Next, you'll need to choose a profile and
there's two things going on here.
There is the encapsulation, and there's
also the video o-deck.
So before we get into that, let's go back
and take a look.
The encapsulation is basically the file
format.
So, in this case we're gonna have an MP4
but we could have something like WebM,
which is another web based video format.
And there's also Theora Vorbis or Ogg
Theora, as it's sometimes called.
And this is going to be an Ogg file
format.
So that's the encapsulation.
Then the Kodak is how the video and the
audio, is actually compressed.
That's why there's two things listed on
each one of this with a plus.
So, each .264 in this case is the video
compression, and
then mp3 is the audio compression.
There's also theora vorbis, which is a
video and audio combination.
So, again, for Internet Explorer and
Safari, this first one will work and
then you can click save as file, and
then you can choose an output location, so
maybe you can save it in the same spot and
just call it my video, or whatever you
want to call it.
In this case, we called it Bridge.mp4, and
you would click save and it would start to
convert for you.
And then you would want to do the same
thing for Theora Vorbis, and
if you click browse, you could save it to
a location, and it will save out.
Now, the thing to remember here is you
want to keep the file size low so,
if you click that customize button, you
can go to the video codec and
let's actually go back to h.264 plus mp3,
and
under video codec here, you can adjust the
bit rate so
you might want to put something on the
order of 5000 or maybe 10,000.
And slowly work your way down.
And the frame rate for this particular
video is 24 frames per second, but
you can adjust that if you'd like.
And then you'd want an output resolution.
This is another place that you can play,
with the file size.
So, you might say 1280 by 720.
And the source for this particular video's
1920 1080, so we'd actually be scaling
this down in resolution a little bit, but
that will produce a smaller file size.
So the bit rate and the resolution under
video.
Are two things to pay attention to.
So when you output video and audio, make
sure to adjust your settings
appropriately, so that you get the optimal
balance between file size and quality